Thank you and welcome to session 139,
Leveraging BSD Services in Mac OS X.
Hope you all had a good lunch.
We'll try and keep you
awake this afternoon.
And as most of you know,
wrapped around Darwin kernel
in Mac OS X is our own
customized version of BSD.
And with that,
what that means for you as developers,
you now have a whole library of BSD tools
and applications available to you.
And you can also exploit the
power of our BSD to bring your
BSD applications to our platform.
So without further ado,
I'd like to introduce the
Director of Core OS Engineering,
Brett Halle.
Good afternoon.
I'm impressed.
Here it is,
Friday afternoon after lunch right before
a three-day weekend and you're in here.
So you must be the real hardcore guys.
So we're going to spend some time
this afternoon and talk a little
bit about what BSD is in Mac OS X,
what kind of role it
plays within the system,
how you can actually get involved
in programming with it on X,
and a bit about the BSD community because
it's more than just the technology.
By now, if you've been to a
number of our sessions,
you've seen the architectural diagram
for where Darwin and Core OS fit
into the architecture of Mac OS X.
There's a lot of technology
down in the kernel land.
And we're going to focus today
on just the BSD portion of this.
A little later today,
there'll be some discussion on
the BSD kernel pieces and the
Mach kernel right after this session.
First we want to talk a little bit
about BSD from the kernel perspective.
Understand that as far as Darwin kernel
architecture is concerned,
that BSD, if you will,
if you layered even at the kernel level,
BSD sits on top of our
kernel architecture.
It has the file system technology,
the networking layer,
and basically provides the POSIX,
if you will,
functionality layer for the system.
I.O.
kit within the kernel space is
our answer for dealing with I.O.
and drivers and basically abstractions
for devices on the system.
And underneath that sits Mach,
which is fundamentally responsible
for abstracting the processor,
dealing with low-level tasks
and thread abstractions,
memory management,
and again dealing with the processor or
processors in the case of an MP system.
For BSD,
you need to realize that as being
just a subcomponent of Mac OS X,
that really BSD is an operating
system in and of itself.
It is a kernel environment that sits
within our kernel space of the system.
It's also a set of user land
libraries and services that are
available to the applications.
And it's also an application
environment in and of itself,
the command line, if you will.
From the kernel perspective,
it's worth noting that there's
some history to how BSD actually
came to play in Mac OS X.
And we'll talk a little
bit more about that later.
But for what we ship,
it's based on the BSD 4.4 environment.
as well as being integrated
with Mac and I/O Kit.
It provides the personality
APIs for the system.
Mac, as it sits on the bottom,
is very much of an abstraction
layer dealing with processor
management and memory management.
It doesn't actually provide any,
if you will, policy to the system.
BSD kernel, however, does.
It very much represents the
OS policy of the system.
It is responsible for the process
model that defines how each and
every application space runs.
It also provides the basic
security policy for the system,
whether it be the concept of individual
users or even as it's abstracted
down to the file system to access
to files and other services of the OS.
From a process model perspective,
there's kind of two ways of
looking at this within Mac OS X.
Again, at the very lowest level,
Mach is responsible for the
abstraction of the processor
and the memory management.
And it has an abstraction
or model called a task,
which is responsible for providing
that container to map to a memory,
basically for an address space or a chunk
of memory that represents an application.
The BSD process sits on top of
those very low-level primitives
and provides a considerable amount
of additional state to the system.
It's responsible for much of
the OS resource management.
So for things like file descriptors and
network services and things like that,
and high-level memory
abstractions as well as,
of course, all the network resources.
The BSD process is responsible for that,
and when a BSD process
terminates for some reason,
either because the application
quits or because there's
some type of fault condition,
it's the responsibility of BSD to
actually reclaim all the resources that
are associated with a given application.
In addition,
there's other ancillary services
that the process provides,
things like environment variables
and signal delivery ways of being
able to provide some type of a
low-level interrupt dispatch,
if you will, at the application level.
[Transcript missing]
Other aspects of security
policy involve the file system.
Again, the concept of users in the
system is actually reflected
down into the file system.
Each and every file on
the system has an owner,
a group that it's part of,
and permission access to those
files that are associated with it.
And those same types of capabilities
can be applied to other kinds
of capabilities in the system.
BSD is also kind of the environment
within which the file system sits.
It's based on a VFS architecture,
a standard BSD file system architecture,
which supports a number of
different file system plug-in
types and things like that.
And earlier in the week there was
a session on file systems that
went into this in more depth,
but it's important to note that the
file system environment is a subset,
if you will, or rather a subsystem
of the BSD environment.
The same is true for networking.
The capabilities of networking
on Mac OS X are built
on the BSD Sockets APIs.
And if you're interested in
learning more about either of
these particular subsystems of
BSD at the kernel environment,
there's some really great books
out there by McKusick and a
couple others that actually go
into some of this architecture.
Stevens is a good one for networking.
And there's, again,
both of these are based off
a standard BSD architecture.
Before I get on to the user environment,
I do want to make sure people
are reminded that immediately
following this session,
there is a session on the Darwin kernel
itself to get more into the low levels
of the system where they'll talk a lot
more about Mach and the BSD kernel.
And that's here in this room.
Moving on to the BSD user environment,
and that's really what's kind
of important from the standpoint
of most people who are going
to be writing code against BSD.
The user environment could be
considered to be another peer
of Cocoa and Carbon and Classic,
if you will.
It's another application
environment available to the system,
and it has a number of services
and facilities that are part of it.
Certainly,
it includes the command line and
shell and those kinds of things
that you would expect to be as part
of a standard Unix environment.
But it is also where most
of the network client tools,
things like SSH...
[Transcript missing]
They include things like
the POSIX style of APIs.
Again, things like Pthreads and other
things like that all exist there.
Your standard math libraries,
C libraries, all of that,
those are the kinds of things that
are part of the system framework.
It's worth talking a bit
about how POSIX actually fits
into the plan here for Apple.
From our perspective,
it's important to try and make
sure that the APIs are compliant.
So as people are working with the system,
we find places where we need
new APIs or things like that,
we actually will use
POSIX APIs as a reference point.
That's usually the basis.
As Steve said at the keynote on Monday,
the focus around staying within
standards is a good thing.
However,
even though compliance is a goal,
for our perspective,
certification is not something
that we're trying to do.
So as you're looking for things,
there's going to be probably a lot
of little details where we may not
necessarily be completely POSIX because
that isn't a goal for Apple.
But again, where there are APIs,
when we introduce things like P-threads,
like there's also the
POSIX shared memory facilities,
those are, as we've introduced
those into the system,
we'll tend to reference the
POSIX APIs as our starting point.
It's worth noting that the
BSD API set is in fact a first
class citizen in Mac OS X.
It's just like Carbon and Cocoa,
it is another application environment.
It can coexist in fact however with
Carbon and Cocoa and in fact Java because
the way that it sits is that all of
the application environment selves
are actually built on these APIs.
Even though it's a peer of
Carbon and Cocoa if you will and
the ability of writing kind of
BSD and Unix types of applications,
the fact is this is the abstraction layer
that actually represents the operating
system and OS personality of the system
and all of these services are what the
other application environments use.
So for things like Cocoa in particular,
you have pretty direct access to the
BSD and POSIX and system framework APIs.
[Transcript missing]
There's a number of little hints,
if you will, about porting your app over.
One thing, for example,
is we basically discourage the
use of common variables and such.
Our implementation for
dynamic libraries is very,
very different.
We also do not support the
use of the C++ precompiler,
at least for the purposes of porting.
Our precompiler for C++ is very
different than the other environments,
and you should really
try and avoid its use.
Again, dynamic libraries are
very different under 10,
so use of things like
DLopen is not recommended.
That won't work.
You should actually look at the DLib
and some of the other facilities.
Try and create analogous solutions
to the CFPlugins and other
kinds of services that exist.
Those dynamic library services
are not the same on 10.
One thing to note is that GNU Make in
the build environment is the default
build environment for BSD apps.
There is BSD Make on the system as well.
You need to explicitly use it if
that is what your app depends on.
Also, use of AutoConf,
which is a very common portability
solution that's available for
many BSD tools and applications,
usually works.
And in fact, a lot of the various ports
collections and things like that
have been modified to run under
and build under Mac OS X already.
However, if you find that it doesn't,
we actually include as part of
the developer tools and user lib
exec a set of config recipes,
if you will,
that will usually allow your app to
be able to be ported over completely.
One other thing to note is that in
terms of how the system is laid out and
when you're building your application,
remember it is built on a BSD,
basically as a BSD system.
If you compare this with how,
for example, Linux files are laid out,
you're going to find that the file
system layout is a little bit different
between these two environments.
And our environment certainly
references much more off of the
BSD environment and you should try and,
if you're going to be
modifying the build,
you want to lean more towards a BSD set
of build variables and settings in order
to be able to get your system to work.
All of these directories that
are mentioned here certainly
exist on the 10 system,
but you'll probably notice
they're invisible to the end user.
This is certainly something that
we're not trying to encourage people
to use in terms of the layout.
Some tools and commands that
you get are dependent on some
of these file system layouts,
but from a perspective of
applications that you package up,
we would actually try and encourage
you to package them up as part
of a GUI app and in other places.
But these standard install places exist.
Now, kind of to show a little bit more
about how you might actually go
about porting an application to 10,
I'd like to bring Eric Peyton up.
And Eric,
one of the things that I'm interested
in seeing is you're being able
to take an app right kind of
off the net and build it for 10.
How do you go about doing that?
Sure, not a problem.
So we-- see, do we have the right-- yeah,
we do.
About a week and a half ago,
two weeks ago, Brett called me and said,
"Eric, go to the ports collection
and do something cool."
And I said, okay.
And I went up to the ports collection,
which is something that I'm
not intimately familiar with,
but I've played around
in there a couple times.
And I had a mission.
I had been playing around and I have
a very large collection of MP3 files.
And they were spread over
multiple different directories,
multiple different disks,
and I wanted to get them
all into my nice big server.
So I needed to find ones that were
duplicated all over the place.
And I knew that I could do this with,
you know,
a little bit of shell scripting,
but that's not really the point here.
The point here is to go get
a tool to help me do that,
bring it down, make it,
maybe put a GUI on it or
something nice like that.
So what I did is I went up
into the utilities directory
up on the ports collection,
up on FreeBSD.org,
I believe or something,
and I grabbed same file.
And what same file does is
in multiple different ways,
it looks at a collection of files
and determines which ones match.
And one of the interesting
things about same file is that
it does it from standard in.
And versus a lot of the other ones
where you have to like enumerate
all your stuff on your command line.
And I thought it'd be an interesting
technical challenge to bring this down,
write a little, make sure that it builds,
and do something interesting with it.
So I downloaded it, just, you know,
OmniWeb or IE or whatever I used,
I can't even remember.
And I brought it down and...
Let's unpackage it.
Now this is one of the well-behaved
packages in the fact that I can just,
oops.
Once I get in the directory.
I can just configure it and
it works out of the box.
Like Brett said, in user libexec,
the config files are quite often
needed to bring across a package
that hasn't been touched in a while.
Something that hasn't been
updated recently with the
more recent config files.
But this one works out of the box.
And I type make.
And if you notice,
I have an executable that I built
25 seconds ago or whatever it was.
And that's just pulling down
directly off of the ports collection.
This is pulling directly
off the ports collection.
No work on my part.
No messing with make files.
Nothing.
Just everything works.
In a little bit,
we'll talk a little bit about what the
ports collection is because certainly
one of the advantages of being part of
the BSD community is there are actually
thousands of interesting little tools
and utilities that exist out there within
this thing called the ports collection.
Yeah.
And the interesting thing, like I said,
was that same file uses standard
in to receive its output.
And so what you do in this case,
I've got a little command line find
here that will find all the files from
here on down and pipe it into same file.
And you notice here, we get,
if the font wasn't so big,
it might actually look like lines,
but it's pretty darn ugly.
This is not a Mac user experience.
Yeah, this is not the user experience
that we're looking to provide
for a Macintosh application.
So Eric, I expect better than that.
Yeah, we're gonna try to do something
a little bit better than this.
You'll notice here, before we move on,
you'll notice the first column,
if you look along this side here,
this side here is the size
of the file that it found.
The column is the first file,
the next column is the second file,
and there's some extraneous
stuff on the end,
which doesn't really mean much
unless you read the readme and start
playing around with the different
options that are available to it.
But that's not really
what I'm looking for here.
I just want to find how big are
my files and which ones match
up and are the exact same size.
So let me get this right.
This tool basically takes
two big glumps of files,
directories full of files,
and points out which ones
happen to be the same ones,
regardless of what they're
called or anything.
Yep, regardless of file name and
that kind of good stuff.
And like I said,
this could easily have been
done with shell scripting,
but it's not nearly as interesting.
So I've already,
let's go ahead and hide that.
I've already created a project,
but the first thing we want to do,
when you're coming at something
from a Cocos perspective,
a lot of times you just
want to make a UI first.
So I created a project which provided
the main menu.nib which if any of you
had been to any of the Cocoa sessions
throughout the week you would have
probably seen that multiple times by now.
And I've already dragged my
files over and I'll show you
all the code in a few minutes.
But let's just start off with something
simple here and let's create a little UI.
A lot of window.
Make it nice and big so that we can see
these long paths all over the place.
We will add a table so
that we can see the output.
And you've got to love the blue lines.
And what we really cared about
was in that output we had
three columns that mattered.
We had file size,
The first file name and
the second file name,
and that provides us with some
Interesting stuff.
So if we ended up with output
that looks something like this in
a table view that we could sort,
that we could mess around with,
that'd be a little closer
to a reasonable UI.
- Can you see the second color bigger?
- Yeah.
- There we go.
- So there we've got some nice big fat
columns so we can see all of our paths.
And we can, for example,
There's a field that will let us put
in a path that we can type in or,
how about even better,
we'll add a little button so that we
can select a directory to start from.
And I'll throw another button
up here that allows us to...
Search for duplicates.
Let's clean this up a little bit.
Nothing really major,
we're just playing around.
[Transcript missing]
So the thing with programming
in Cocoa here is basically what
you're spending all the time
doing is laying out the UI.
Yeah, this is the fun part.
Spend a lot of time doing the fun stuff,
laying it out,
making it all nice and pretty.
And Interface Builder,
if you missed the Interface Builder
tutorials and sessions this week,
you missed a lot of really good stuff.
It is one really cool tool.
So here we've got a UI that
I would consider somewhat
usable for us Unix people.
Something that we can work off of.
Let's go ahead and stop right
here and start hooking stuff up
and figuring out what's going on.
Stop the window.
Yeah, we want the window to be visible
when we launch the application.
I've already created a lot of
the code and we'll walk through
that together here in a second.
But let's start off by
creating our controller object.
Which I've already imported into.
We have a same file controller object.
I've already imported the code,
which we'll look at in a minute.
Let's go ahead and hook up the
portions of that object that
matter to us at this time.
Once again, like I said,
if you missed the
interface builder talks,
I really recommend that you spend some
time playing around with this tool.
It's pretty cool.
So we've got a table for output.
We have our three columns.
A size column,
a column for our first file,
Column for our second file.
We have a text field
that contains our path.
We have our button that
begins and ends our tool.
We can go ahead and stay here.
Everything's hooked up
coming out of the controller.
We know what all the output
parts of the UI are gonna be.
Let's hook up what's
going into the controller,
the things that make stuff happen.
So there's two major
portions here that matter.
And of course the window's so big
you can't see what you're doing here,
hold on.
This is an easy way to do it.
We want to tell the
system to start my tool.
We want to tell the system,
let me select a directory.
We'll save our little
nib in our project here.
And for now,
this is all we really need to do.
So let's go ahead and go off.
and open up our project that I previously
had created and let's walk through what
the code actually does to actually get
this to output information to the GUI.
So at this point this is all
pretty standard Cocoa stuff.
Yeah.
Nothing really unusual at all.
Nothing unusual at all.
However, it's not hooked up to BSD.
There's no tools involved
or anything like that.
First thing we want to do,
let's go ahead and add our,
it's already here.
I'll show you what it is.
I've already included the same file
binary as a resource of my project.
Now this is the one you built
that was the command line tool.
Yeah.
This is the one that I built
four minutes ago or whatever.
It's the command line tool.
The reason that I'm putting it in the
resources directory of my project is
so that I don't have to have separate
install instructions for my user
to get the same file UNIX binary
installed on their system in
/usr/usr/local/bin or anything like that.
If I include it as part of my project,
they don't ever have to worry about it.
It just becomes a cohesive whole.
It all works together.
Nothing else has to ship and they
don't have to install files into
locations that they can't delete
them from or don't even know that
it's happening in the first place.
So basically if you're going to
wrap something like a UNIX tool,
unless it's something that
already exists on the system,
you can bundle,
put it inside your application
bundle and make it,
you know, just another resource,
if you will, of your application.
Most definitely.
And we really suggest that you do
that to avoid situations where you're
installing fragmented portions of
your package all over the hard disk.
It's not very Mac OS-ish to do that.
It's something that we're looking
to see improvement from you.
Now, before I began,
or earlier we were talking
about my different classes
and I had the same file class.
And the same file class is the portion
of my code that is the controller object
for what's going on in my interface.
It consists of two major parts.
It consists of two methods.
A method for beginning my
search and a method for finding
Finding files for the user to do that.
So they press that button and it fills
in a path so that stuff can happen.
Let's start off with the selector.
So the user runs the application.
The first thing they're going
to do is they're going to go
off and select a directory.
And so what I've done here is I've
added in a simple little method here,
five lines of code,
creating an open panel,
telling them that they can't choose files
but they can only choose directories.
I don't want multiple
selection at this time.
It would be an easy enhancement
to add with some more UI later.
And then I tell my
system to begin a sheet.
and David For a directory.
You'll notice here it's modal
for the window and I've got a
selector that happens at the end.
So basically this just pops up a sheet,
lets them pick a directory.
This pops up a sheet,
lets them do what they want
to do and everything works.
Up above the other,
the only other method in this class
at all is the toggle tool method which
will start or stop your execution.
If it's not executing,
go ahead and look at the path
that we had set up in the UI.
The one the user just selected.
The one the user selected or the
one that the user had typed in.
Let's create an array of our arguments.
The first argument is the path
to our same file resource.
That's our binary that we had included.
That's the straight Unix binary,
nothing special there.
Then we add in some arguments.
You'll notice here that
I have if verbose check state.
So if the verbose checkbox is checked,
add an object.
Well, I never added a verbose checkbox.
And to show you a little bit about
how easy some of this stuff can be,
what I'll do is I'll come back here and
I'll add a little checkbox onto my UI.
Verbose,
or you could name it something much
more concise than that if you wanted to.
And we'll hook up the
verbose check there.
And what this would do,
if you go back to the code
that we're looking at,
all it's going to do is it's going to
add an object into my array of dash v.
And we'll talk about why this array
looks the way that it looks in a
minute when we get to the process,
what really happens.
So basically, like most Unix tools,
there's a half a bazillion
little options and stuff,
and it's very easy in the UI to be able
to add checkboxes and things like that.
Most definitely.
To kind of hide that kind of
stuff away from having people
having to build command lines.
It's a lot easier to start,
once you have all this set up,
and you'll see, it's not very much code.
Once you have it set up,
it's very easy to add command
line switches can turn into
GUI switches very rapidly.
Very little work whatsoever.
So you'll notice here that at the
beginning of this code segment,
I've got a current process
equal process alloc init with
controller self arguments.
And what that is,
is for every time that we run this,
we want to have a process run.
Something is going to
launch this Unix tool,
get the output, and all that.
We feed it in with the
arguments at the end.
I just called them arg v,
but you could name them
whatever you'd like.
Down after that,
you'll notice I have an append output.
This is just a little log so that
you can see that it's begun running.
And then in this block here,
you will notice that what we
do is we take the path that the
user had entered or selected,
Use the NS file manager class,
which will, as a BSD programmer,
probably become a very
good friend of yours.
It's a general purpose
file manager class.
We retrieve all of the paths at,
or the sub-paths from that path.
We even do some nice stuff like
we expand the tilde in path.
If you have BSD users,
they very well might want to use
tilde for their home directory and
not have to go selecting all over the
place with a file browser because some
people type faster than they click.
Usually the tilde is something
expanded by the shell.
Yeah, we have no shell performing
any of the actions here,
so there's no possibility
for expansion there.
If I can interrupt,
one thing that's worth noting is there's
a huge number of facilities within
the foundation portion of Cocoa that
actually wrap a lot of and do a lot
of the services that you expect to
be able to talk to background Unix apps.
Things like expanding tildes,
things like breaking up command lines
into specific... individual arguments.
Yeah, breaking up command lines,
finding your home directory,
finding the current user,
all that kind of stuff are
all portions of foundation.
This specific case is
a method on NSString,
but a lot of them are in different
portions of the foundation classes,
and they're very, very useful to somebody
who's trying to leverage BSD.
You'll notice here what
we have is to our process,
so we get all of our paths,
we enumerate through our paths,
and we pass our process on standard in
the string that we had just expanded.
And then when we're finished with all of,
once we've spun through all of them,
we pass it on, we tell the process, okay,
I'm done writing,
go ahead and go off and do your thing.
This close writing is,
I guess you could say,
analogous to hitting Control-D at
the end of messing around a cat.
I'm done messing around, go do something.
And that's all it is in
our same file class itself.
There's nothing else to it really,
except for handling of the output,
which we've abstracted
into the superclass.
So we've got a class that
controls them pushing buttons,
But what happens?
Where does all this go on?
I don't see any work going on here.
So you'll notice that
I've got another class,
Process, and a class, Simple Tool.
Simple Tool is the parent
class for the same file.
And the reason that it's abstracted
out was because the Simple Tool class
is an abstraction that I've used
in multiple different places and
it made it very quick and easy.
I just literally dumped this class in,
object-oriented programming,
let's use it again.
And what it does is it allows,
it's the thing that handles the output
and passes the output back to the UI.
And there's a very common set
of abstractions when you're
trying to wrap a Unix tool,
which is passing a set of arguments
and information into the tool and
then grabbing the output of the
tool and processing in some way
that's appropriate for the UI.
So you'll notice here that the only thing
that this thing really does is have,
the process has started, okay,
let's create some strings
to stuff the data in,
and the process is finished,
let's create some arrays
to stick the output in.
But we still don't have the glue.
Okay, we can get the output,
we can tell them what the input is,
but what's in the middle?
And that's what my process class is for.
So, Cocoa provides in its foundation
class a couple fundamental tools that
could be used by BSD programmers.
NSPipe, NSFileHandle, NSTask,
and there's a bunch more.
I expect that all of you will
go home and do your homework.
Start playing around with them.
In the case here,
if you remember earlier,
we created our array of paths
and everything and put them,
or our array of control and put it
into an argument that we pass to a knit
with controller for the process class.
And here you can see exactly what we do.
We just retain those arguments
and we create a write pipe.
The write pipe, you see there,
it's NSPipePipeRetain,
creates a pipe that we can
use to pipe to standard in.
If you look down into
the next major function,
you'll see when they click on start,
when they click on toggle
tool and it begins,
we gather all the arguments,
we tell it to start the process.
We create an NSTask.
One of the main purposes of NSTask is
to wrap this kind of work for you so
that you don't have to do interesting,
neat,
but boring things like fork exec and
sitting around and waiting for output.
NSTask does it all for you and provides
all these tools in an object-oriented
manner so that you can access them.
You can set the standard output.
You can set the standard error.
You can set the standard input.
In our case, like I said earlier,
same file presented a interesting
case because it needed standard
in versus most things which just
pass everything on the command,
or a lot of tools that pass
everything on the command line.
So we've got a pipe for, you know,
For standard in,
and we've got the same pipe for
standard output and standard error.
We tell it the launch path.
You'll notice here the arguments
is objected index zero,
which is somewhat
hard-coded in this case.
But if you remember back
when I created the array,
the first thing that I passed was
the path to the same file binary.
So my launch path is the entire
path to the same file binary,
the little bitty Unix tool.
You're building up the command line.
I'm building up the
command line right here.
The next thing I do is set the arguments.
And I want everything else except
the path to the Unix command line.
So I subarray with range,
and I start at one,
and I just go to the end.
So this one line right here
will easily allow you to just
keep on adding on arguments,
dash v, dash d, dash 4, 1000,
or whatever the arguments
need to be to that Unix tool.
You can add them on without
having to change your process
class in any way whatsoever.
You then need to register
with the notification center.
And if you go in and
look at NS file handle,
NS pipe, and NS task,
you'll notice there are some standardized
themes throughout all of them.
But one of them is the fact that you
can register with the notification
center to see when something's done,
to see when a task terminates,
and that kind of stuff.
Here you'll see that I'm
registering for NS file handle
read completion notification.
When the file handle has
received some output,
let me know.
Basically wanting to know when all
the output from the tool comes along.
Sure.
When the tool starts
spitting stuff at me,
I want to know what it is.
The next thing I want to do
is I want to tell it to go.
And that consists of two
parts in this situation.
We tell it to read in
background and notify.
That tells us, yes.
Your job is to wait for background
notification and then tell me.
And then we tell it, launch.
Pretty simple.
Stop process is even simpler.
We tell it, OK,
remove my notification for reading,
and let's terminate the task.
The only other interesting thing in
here is what happens when I get data.
When I told it that I wanted
to register for notification,
I gave it a selector to a method.
Notify me when I get data by
calling my get data method.
And you'll notice here all it does is it
takes all this stuff and then it passes
back to the controller that I registered
at the beginning a penned output.
So we can get the output.
This class does all the work.
The only other-- I guess this is
another small but interesting thing.
You'll notice here the
insert string method.
This is the method that goes to the write
pipe and does standard in for all intents
and purposes to our little Unix tool.
And all it does is it writes
the data in UTF-8 encoding,
and then it passes a slash n.
New Line on so that it knows
that all the writing is done.
And then when we told it to close
writing at the very last thing,
Control D as I explained earlier,
let's close our file.
We're done piping stuff to standard in.
Go off and run and do stuff.
So 99% of what you just talked
about is basically standard for
talking to any Unix application.
There's nothing unusual about this
particular tool that we're running.
It's basically,
there's a couple of small methods
that you use to be able to pass
information to the background tool.
There's a small number of methods to
be able to read it in and parse it.
And some basic stuff for wrapping the
management of that particular task.
But the stuff that you've shown
me so far doesn't have anything
really at all to do with... No,
this is very tool agnostic.
If you know the... We ship some
applications that are based
on the same style of concept.
Network Utility, for example,
uses multiple different Unix
tools to do the same type of work.
And this is the easiest, fastest,
and most productive way
to do this kind of thing.
So now we know we have the controller
that gets the information from the
user and tells the process to run.
The process runs and can tell
the controller the output.
The only other interesting thing
left is back in here we have a tool.
So simple tool,
which was our parent class,
knows how to put output
into a table view.
And for this specific case it's a
little hard-coded because it's a demo.
Basically all it's doing though
is just taking the output and
formatting it up for the UI.
It takes the output, it creates a row,
an array of rows.
Those rows contain arrays of output.
The size of the file,
the first file name and
the second file name.
And this is a table view delegate,
which if you look back here in the UI,
we had our table view.
And our table view needs to be hooked up.
to a delegate and a data source.
Now, what that does,
if you're familiar with
AppKit programming,
a data source provides data
to an object that requests it.
Table views, browsers, those kind of,
I guess you could call
heavier weight Cocoa objects.
Quite a few of them have data sources.
Delegation is a concept
we won't go into here,
but it's a way of having an
object perform actions on
the behalf of other objects.
Our table view needs to get
the data from something.
And so what we would set it up as is
that it will get the data from our--
It just knows to ask your class.
It knows to ask my class for the
data when I'm ready to have it draw.
It only matters, there's only two methods
that truthfully matter,
and it's the table view wants to know
how many rows do I have so it can
start setting up its scroll bars,
know how much amount of,
the amount of room it needs
to allocate and so on.
And then what value do I put
into this row for this column?
And you notice here,
if table column is the size column,
then I want from my row array
the very first indexed object.
I want my size.
You can use table column identifiers
to get much better granularity than
this in slightly less hackish terms,
but this will do just as well.
Okay, I'm in management,
I'd like to see the end result, show me.
End result.
So let's build our project here.
And he's in management.
You'll all notice that
I built with no warnings,
no errors.
So let's go ahead and select a directory.
And this should all work.
Let's select a directory that
we know has some duplicates,
otherwise this would be very boring.
And you'll notice here
I had a select directory.
I filled in the path.
I could have typed that path in as well,
but got to show that the sheet works.
Let's see if this works.
Ooh, there it goes.
I must not have waited long enough.
So you'll notice here what it did is it
went off and it grabbed all that output.
And this is essentially the exact
same output with some typo errors,
it looks like, stuffed in there.
Probably parsing.
It's, uh, that's bug fixing.
This is feature complete,
but not bug finished.
You'll notice here that it went
off and it noticed that I have a
same file binary inside my app,
which is what I had requested.
And if you look here
in the second column,
There's also a same file binary
in both the root of my app,
which I had copied there
earlier on accident,
and a same file binary in the same
file directory of what I downloaded.
You'll notice that they're
all exactly the same.
And in this case, they're all the exact
same name and everything.
But if we would have renamed one of them,
it would have shown it up
anyway and done its magic.
If we had turned on the verbose flag,
in this case,
we don't have any place for the
verbose output to really go.
We could have dumped it to standard out.
But the verbose output doesn't
really belong inside of a table view.
The next steps for what you
could do in here are things
like adding in flags for size.
The dash S flag, I believe,
is the same file.
Then you put in 10,000.
That means I don't care about
anything underneath 10,000 bytes.
So all it would have shown
were these first two rows.
That would have literally been
four more minutes worth of work,
but my time is over.
Thank you.
Thank you, Eric.
I think the important
key here is that there's,
as you see,
a bit of work around kind of setting up
the standard structure for being able
to talk to a background BSD application
in terms of being able to manage
sending data to it and getting it back.
But Cocoa does an enormous amount of the
work here in terms of being able to allow
you to parse the arguments and tear them
apart and basically send them to a UI.
At this particular point, it's UI polish,
and that really is the fun part.
But the neat thing is being able to take,
you know, something like a BSD background
application and even just starting
with this as a starting point,
being able to support just about
anything you can imagine that runs there.
And this is of a particularly valuable
and important feature for Mac OS X,
being able to leverage these kinds
of capabilities and tools in the
background of your application and
being able to provide them forward
to our end users in such a way
that doesn't require them to learn,
you know,
something like Emacs or the command line.
So I can move on.
Let's move on back to the slides.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
Does this work?
Yeah.
So as Brett said,
they incorporated quite a bit of
FreeBSD technology into Darwin,
I guess, several years ago when the
project was first launched.
But I don't think that
collaboration certainly ends there.
And there are a lot of
interesting things that we are
doing at FreeBSD and have done.
And I think that there's
quite a bit of room for
collaboration in both directions.
So I'll talk about it a little
bit from the FreeBSD perspective.
So one of the nicest things I find
from a developer about FreeBSD is
the source tree organization.
And that may seem like
kind of a small thing,
but it's actually of tremendous
value for a lot of reasons.
One thing it gives us
is a common taxonomy.
It gives us a place for everything to go.
It gives us a place for new things to be
incorporated into the tree without having
to argue for four months about it first.
And it also means that there's
a one-to-one correspondence
between where binaries are.
For example, binLS,
you know it's going to
be in user source binLS.
So it's very easy to find stuff.
And it also segregates
all of the code that's,
for example,
under the GPL or is export restricted
into concise areas of the tree where
you know exactly where it is and you
can firewall it off if you're making a
product that requires the BSD license,
for example,
or you're exporting it to Croatia and
then there's issues behind that.
The source tree also handles,
it encodes all of the bootstrapping
issues so that if a binary
depends on a certain library,
it is smart enough to go build
that library first before
building the binaries in question.
And that removes a lot of the burden
on the developer of figuring out
exactly how things are tied together.
And that's very important.
We also have a distinction
between vendor.
We use vendor-supplied software and
stuff that we maintain ourselves.
We use CVS very aggressively.
And one of the things we do, for example,
is when a new version of GCC comes out,
which is a vendor-supplied
bit of software,
we import it on a vendor branch
and we have all of our own
changes on the project branch.
So we can keep the two
change sets distinct.
And so we know exactly what
the GNU people have changed.
Whoops, my microphone fell off.
I'll just hold it.
We know what the GNU people have
changed versus what we've had to change.
And this makes ongoing
maintenance a lot easier.
Also, we provide a series of
targets in the source tree,
like world and kernel and update,
which remove a lot of the hair
of knowing exactly what order
to build things in again.
So it gives us a common reference point.
If we have developers who are
complaining that they're seeing
some strange anomalous behavior,
we can say, well,
when did you last build world?
And we know exactly what that means.
We know that they've gone and
they've updated all of it.
They have their binaries,
their include files,
their libraries and so forth
from a common reference point.
It also makes it easier
for newbie developers,
people who are maybe not so
familiar with the project,
they may be very skilled
at C or whatever,
but they don't want to have to learn
the ins and outs of our build system.
They just want to grab the source tree,
type make world,
watch the whole thing work,
and be done with it.
So these are all things I hope
that will eventually in some way,
shape or form, migrate over to Darwin.
As I said, we also,
using CVS very aggressively,
have come up with a number of interesting
ways of distributing the bits.
We have something called CVSup,
which understands CVS natively.
That means that when you run it,
it pulls over just the deltas that
have been added to the repository
since the last time you ran it.
And that means that it preserves
your own local changes.
So if you have a local branch
in your own CVS repository,
it's not just going to come
and splat a file on top of it.
It's going to interleave
the deltas together.
And that's very valuable.
It also uses rsync and some
other advanced protocols,
so it's very fast and very efficient.
And if you run it on a daily basis,
it takes maybe five, ten minutes to run,
and you're completely synced up.
It also understands how
to check things out.
So you can use CVSup to check
out a branch of the repository.
So if you don't want the repository bits,
but you want a certain branch of FreeBSD,
you can ask CVSup just to give
you that and keep it up to date.
We also support some esoteric
methods of getting the bits,
like CTM, which actually bundles the
patches together and checksums
them and sends them through mail.
So some of our developers in Estonia
and places like that who don't
have good hardwired connections
or who have very infrequent
connectivity can sync up that way.
And then, of course,
we support the classic AnonCVS methods.
And we also have a CVS web interface
so that you can see very colorfully
what's changed at any particular point.
We also support multiple
branches of development,
as I said earlier.
We have stable branches,
which are sort of more tried and tested
branches that we aim at the end users.
And we have current,
which is the bleeding, spurting,
severed artery edge of development,
which is guaranteed to hurt you.
And so we aim the
developers more at that.
But we do supply both.
So this means that we don't
have to freeze out developers
from doing active and,
in some cases, experimental development.
That development can always occur
at whatever pace it wants to.
But the people, the yahoos of the world,
don't have to suffer from that.
They get their changes
backported from the current
branch at a much more slow pace.
And they also get things tested.
You don't just bring things immediately
over into the stable branches.
There's a methodology that
requires a certain amount
of testing and integration.
On the flip side,
it's also a real pain in
the butt to backport stuff.
And CVS isn't tremendously good
at holding your hand in that.
So that's an ongoing
project cost that we incur.
Nor is it very easy to synchronize
things across repositories.
So we have had a lot of initiatives that
have kind of fallen flat to share codes,
say, between NetBSD and FreeBSD,
or FreeBSD and OpenBSD.
Because they have stuff
in their repository.
We have stuff in our repository.
And it's just a lot of pain to manually
bring those changes back and forth.
So we're looking at ways in
perhaps automating that somehow.
Putting pointers in CVS, for example,
that say whenever you make a
change to this particular subtree,
it gets bundled up and sent over to a
neighbor repository and automatically
checked in or something like that.
There's a lot of low-hanging fruit,
I think,
also in the free BSD source tree that
the Darwin community can benefit from.
We've added a lot of creature
comforts to our user land.
Just for example,
our FTP client does file name completion.
So whenever I'm on my OS X box,
I'm always whacking tab and kind of
frowning it that it doesn't work.
So things like that would certainly
make a positive difference.
We have a lot of really interesting
libraries that front-end things like
fetching bits over FTP or HTTP that
make writing clients a lot easier.
And then obviously we have some of the
large-scale subsystems and whatnot.
Open SSH, Open SSL get updated, I think,
on a much more periodic basis.
We have a lot of security
work that's ongoing.
We've added POSIX ACLs for giving
you much more granular access
control than simply the one big root.
We've added obviously a lot of
ongoing auditing work as well.
And I would like to see those
changes getting into Darwin on
a more frequent basis,
as I'm sure the
Darwin people would as well.
Finally, it's also,
even though we do use a
very different driver model,
Darwin using I/O Kit and us using Nubus,
I think that obviously having working
drivers to look at is of tremendous
benefit to Darwin developers.
And I hope that they will
continue to use them.
So, getting away from the bundled apps,
we also have the ports collection
which you've heard referenced
a couple times already.
I started it in August 20th, 1994.
I just wanted to kind of prove
a concept which was that you
could create an expert system,
as it were, for porting software.
That is to say,
I found whenever I went into a new box,
the first things I'd do
is I'd bring over Emacs,
I'd bring over Bash,
I'd bring over a couple of
tools I was familiar with.
And that involved, of course,
remembering where the reference
repositories on the net were,
FTPing them, unpacking them,
configuring them, building them,
installing them in the whole nine yards.
And it occurred to me that, you know,
there was kind of a very common
process running across all these
different types of software.
And maybe I could encode the smarts
for doing that in addition to
any patches that I might need to
make into some sort of taxonomy.
And this became the ports collection.
I think by the end of the
year it was 200 ports or so.
And today it's over 5,100 ports
in 52 different categories.
There are languages,
localized versions of software, German,
Vietnamese, you name it.
It's just a huge,
huge collection of stuff.
And it grows at a rate of
about 50% a year so far,
and there's really no end in sight,
unfortunately.
There have been some forks
of the ports collection.
The NetBSD and the
OpenBSD folks have taken them,
made some slight tweaks,
and the open packages effort was
launched by Daemon News in an effort
to kind of bring all that back
together again and create one common
standard for the ports collection.
And so they've been doing
very good work there,
and I believe they've gotten
Darwin to sign on as well,
and so Darwin will be substantially
leveraging a lot of that effort.
As I said, what the Ports Collection does
is it automates the fetching,
the configuring, the building,
the installation,
and all of the dependency checking.
So if you build some little GNOME client,
for example, it goes off and installs
reams and reams of stuff.
It goes off and gets libraries,
gets support infrastructure,
a tremendous amount of stuff.
Basically drags all of GNOME in with it,
and you don't have to
know about all of that.
And it's a tremendous time saver.
It also is the way that we
build all of our packages.
Because you've got the dependency
information already encoded
in the Ports Collection,
it's very easy to pass it
on to the package system,
which was actually written after
the Ports Collection was done.
And it gives us a great way of
automating the package building.
We have a cluster of 16 or so machines
which do nothing but 24 hours a day,
build all 5,100 packages,
and put them off into an FTP site.
And you can access this
very easily just by doing,
package add minus R, name of package,
and it will go off and figure
out what version of the
operating system you're running,
what the closest FTP site is,
and suck it down along with
all of the dependencies.
So if you don't want to build
the stuff from ports and go
through all the compilation time,
you don't have to do that.
We also use the packages
to do more than just,
[Transcript missing]
So like I say,
it's really great that it saves a lot
of time and makes it really easy to
go build really complicated pieces of
software without having to know anything
about the dependencies or where the tar
balls are stored or what particular weird
configuration arguments you need to use.
It's all pretty much hands off.
What sucks about it is all of
this is encoded in Berkeley Make.
And if I had it to do over again,
I probably would have put all the meta
information in XML or something and
written a tool which just extracted
the information and built the
Make files on the fly or something.
So I am actively looking now at some
way of doing a ports next generation
effort or something which makes it a
lot easier to build documentation trees,
web browsable pages and whatnot
which describe the ports collection.
And that's something that
I'm really excited about.
I hope maybe we can do
hand in hand with Darwin.
So I think our community is at
least as important as our bits.
Obviously we've been around for nine
years and we wouldn't have been around
this long if we hadn't had some ways
of keeping the whole thing cohesive.
So one of the things that we're
proud of is our core team,
which is now a democratically
elected body that is chosen
by the majority of committers.
And committers are people who have
right access to the CVS repository.
So if you're a committer,
you can stand for election and every
two years we choose a majority.
It's a pretty good system and I think we
should try it in this country sometime.
Anyway.
We have 267 CVS committers now who are
segregated in three different categories.
The docs people who just work on docs,
people who work on the bundled sources,
and the people who work
on the ports collection.
So you don't need to be a
cross-disciplinary person.
You can choose an area to specialize on.
And committers are approved by core.
So it's not quite as difficult as
it is to become a Darwin developer,
for example,
but you do need to have the unanimous
approval of core before you make it in.
So there's some level of quality control.
We also make allowances for sort of
collective versus individual ownership.
In the large picture,
FreeBSD as a project owns the sources and
nobody can really put an exclusive lock.
But we do have kind of a non-exclusive
lock model where somebody says,
hey, I'm really maintaining this.
Everybody should lockstep their
changes through me because I understand
it better than anybody else.
And so we have maintainer
bits that allow for that.
And this works very well, actually,
because it lets people feel a
certain degree of ownership over it
but without destroying sort of the
collective ownership of the sources,
which keeps the project together.
I think it's really important
to get developers' hearts and
minds if you want to keep them
interested over the long term.
What I mean by that is you can't
just get a pile of bits thrown over
the wall periodically from some
developer who doesn't buy off on
your vision or your overall strategy
because that pile of bits will just
hit the ground with a dull thud and
start to smell almost immediately.
We tried that with BSDOS and
some other groups where code
was thrown over the wall,
but we didn't get the developers
that came along with those bits,
and that was a critical
mistake in all cases,
and in such cases,
those projects essentially died off.
So if I could say something
to the Darwin community,
it would be it's not just about the bits.
It's about communicating your vision and
really getting people to buy into it,
and that's what gives you longevity.
So our identity, as it were,
is also determined largely by the users.
And this was kind of a shock to us.
We started off as a bunch of
hobbyists with a computing problem,
and we did it really for
our own edification and ego
gratification and whatnot.
But what we found is that we have pretty
much been driven over the last five
or six years by what the users want
because they yell very loudly for it,
and we have some pride in our work.
And so we have really become
extremely user-driven.
The yahoos of the world pretty
much tell us what to do.
They ask nicely because
they've learned their lesson,
but they do essentially
drive our direction.
And so our vision is essentially
nothing more than listen to what
the users ask for and try and
fulfill that as best possible.
And still try to have fun, obviously,
and people will still work on
things that interest them the most.
But if I had to point to
the overall direction,
it would be listen to the users.
And I think that's what's going
to happen with Darwin as well.
The needs of OS X will dictate
Darwin's direction if they follow
a parallel line of evolution.
So where I think that the
FreeBSD project can work with
Apple on an ongoing basis is one,
I think that Apple is helping
us to shatter the desktop myth,
which is that BSD or FreeBSD are
only good for servers.
Because they run Yahoo's and
Hotmails and companies like that,
that it's no good as a desktop OS.
And we certainly know
that that's not true,
but Apple is helping to really drive
the point home with a very large hammer,
and we appreciate that.
It's a great foundation for
a desktop operating system.
And I think that having the
same OS run on your server and
your desktop also means that
interoperability is more or less assured.
You're going to have the
right tools for doing network
communications between the two.
It's going to be much easier
to administer heterogeneous
collection of servers and desktops,
and I really think that there's
a strong case to be made for
one operating system being both.
And also, paradoxically,
I think Darwin has more freedom
to innovate now than we do.
We have been around for nine years.
We have a very stodgy and
somewhat conservative user base.
And as I said,
they tend to drive our direction.
So we can't make any sudden U-turns
or swerve in violent directions
without pissing a lot of people off.
Whereas Darwin is still
comparatively young and they're
well firewalled in some respects
from OS X by this nice GUI desktop.
And I think that Darwin has already
done quite a bit of interesting stuff
with I/O Kit and even the stuff pulled
across from Mach that addresses some
of the old problems in very new ways.
And that's something that
I think we can learn from.
Darwin can learn a lot from some
of our methodologies and they can
learn a lot from our technologies.
But I think we can learn.
The most from Darwin's innovation.
And I look forward to working
with them in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jordan.
So kind of in closing here, again,
you really need to realize that BSD is
an amazingly powerful part of Mac OS X.
We've done a really
good job of hiding it,
but from you as a developer, it's there.
It's something you can take
advantage of and really should.
However,
you should be careful about exposing
the end user to the user experience.
It is a pretty different world
underneath the covers there.
This is a very powerful tool
for you to use as a developer.
It's a powerful tool to help leverage
new technology into Mac OS X.
But it's up to you as the developers to
be very cognizant of keeping it Macintosh
in terms of ease of use and the kinds of
things that you would expect on a Mac.
And there's a very interesting
juxtaposition there of goals.
It's also important for you to
realize that many of the BSD parts
of the system are actually optional
in terms of how they're installed.
So if you're writing an application
on Mac OS X and you're depending
on bits and pieces of BSD,
make sure that you include the
pieces that you need to and that
you know what's actually installed
kind of in the base system install.
The BSD package that exists
in the installer may actually,
you know,
may not be installed by the user and in
some environments they may decide not to.
So be very,
very careful about making assumptions
about what pieces are actually in
the base install of the system.
And there are things you can
do like packaging your tools
as part of your application
to help protect you from that.
And we're working on
additional things for,
you know, long term for being able to do
things like package management
and stuff like that to help out.
But it's something you
should be very conscious of.
Make sure you leverage Darwin.
I think this is an
important part of Mac OS X,
and I mean Darwin from the
open source perspective.
This is a pretty new paradigm
for the Apple community to use,
and something that we consider
to be a real advantage that
Mac OS X brings to the table.
Take advantage of it.
Also, leverage the FreeBSD community.
They're very much part of
our extended community.
Jordan and his team really brings
a lot of experience and stuff
to this aspect of the system,
and we're really happy to
be partnering with them and
being part of that community.
I would very much encourage you
to leverage some of the knowledge
and technology that exists there.
[Transcript missing]